#Literature Review
##Library cataloguing and technologies
Social media can be used by libraries to connect with their customers (McGuinness, 2014).  It is important for libraries to be aware of what they own as well as what is available to them when considering things like patron driven acquisition (Quigley, 2014).  Library staff need to keep themselves up-to-date on available technologies in order to provide the best service to customers (O'Sullivan, 2015).  Front-line staff are a valuable resource when considering the needs and wants of the customer as they see them face-to-face.  They can provide feedback on the impact on the customer of any changes made and can help when evaluating user requirements (Hanrahan, 2015).  Good communication between library users and llibraries can be used to help enhance the user experience (Vleeschouwer et al, 2014).  Libraries are moving towards integration of different library systems and enhanced cooperation between libraries (Clehane and O'Brien, 2015).  In order to meet the needs of individual libraries, customisable software could be used, though this would require that library staff were sufficiently proficient in IT skills (Stack, 2015).
##PHP
PHP is a server-side programming language which integrates easily with both MySQL and HTML to provide websites that can change with user input and work with large amounts of data (Nixon, 2015; php.net).  PHP forms the middle-ground between the user interface and the data held in the database.  PHP can be used with all major operating systems and web browsers and with many databases (php.net).
Both PHP and Java can be used as a middle-ground between the client-side GUI and the server-side data (Trent et al, 2008, Adebukola and Kazeem, 2014).  Both have similar capabilities and there is little to choose between them (Trent et al, 2008).  Part of the popularity of PHP is that it is free to use (Adebukola and Kazeem, 2014).
PHP can be used to output HTML (Nixon, 2015).  PHP is less strict with formatting than other languages (Nixon, 2015).  PHP supports object oriented programming.  Using OOP and encapsulating the data so that the code itself cannot be directly accessed is more secure and makes it more simple to update code, simply replace the old class with a new class (Nixon, 2015).
##Linking of technologies
PHP, MySQL, HTML are all free to use (Nixon, 2015).  PHP and MySQL work together in dynamic web pages, PHP can be used to connect to the database, send an SQL query to retrieve information and use this information to build a webpage (Nixon, 2015).  CSS, HTML and Javascript are used in combination to provide the structure, look and instant user interaction functionality in dynamic web page design (Nixon, 2015).  Ajax (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) uses a combination of technologies to provide instant feedback to users without the need to wait for information from the server.
##MySQL
MySQL is a widely used database language that is easy to learn and straight-forward to use.  It is simple to use with PHP as MySQL commands can be written into PHP scripts (Nixon, 2015).  MySQL can also be accessed through a GUI such as PHPMyAdmin or through the command line (Nixon, 2015).
##Java
Java uses a combination of compilation and interpretation (Eck, 2014). Java is compiled for the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) which allows the compiled code to be ported across different operating systems instead of being compiled to run only on one particular machine and needing to be compiled for each machine (Eck, 2014).  The Java bytecode can then be interpreted by an interpreter to produce machine code to run the Java program on that particular machine (Eck, 2014).  This is one of the advantages of using Java because compilers are large and complicated programs unlike interpreters and one would be required for the machine language for each machine type that the program would be required to run on (Eck, 2014).  
