#Method
##Overview
Online library information systems are currently available
##Libraries Ireland
Libraries Ireland uses a combination of HTML5, CSS and Javascript to provide interactive online services such as E–Learning Courses, Digital Magazines, Online Newspapers and E-books and E-audio books: Borrow Box.
http://www.librariesireland.ie/online-resources/
https://fe.bolindadigital.com/wldcs_bol_fo/b2i/mainPage.html?b2bSite=4821
##PHP
PHP is a server-side programming language which integrates easily with both MySQL and HTML to provide websites that can change with user input and work with large amounts of data (Nixon, 2015; php.net).  PHP forms the middle-ground between the user interface and the data held in the database.  PHP can be used with all major operating systems and web browsers and with many databases (php.net).  Part of the popularity of PHP is that it is free to use (Adebukola and Kazeem, 2014).  PHP can be used to output HTML (Nixon, 2015).  PHP is less strict with formatting than other languages (Nixon, 2015).  PHP supports object oriented programming.  Using OOP and encapsulating the data so that the code itself cannot be directly accessed is more secure and makes it more simple to update code, simply replace the old class with a new class (Nixon, 2015).  PHP also supports inheritance, which makes creating new classes easier (Nixon, 2015).
##HTML5
HyperText Markup Language (HTML) is a markup language which is used to manage the structural elements of web pages (Robbins, 2012).  HTML5 is easily used across multiple platforms and devices (Holzinger et al., 2012).
##CSS3
Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) are used in conjunction with HTML to control how the web pages are displayed (Robbins, 2012).  CSS can also be a major part of responsive web design, using different displays for different devices (Robbins, 2012).
##JavaScript
JavaScript is used in the design of interactive web pages (Robbins, 2012).
##MySQL
MySQL is a widely used database language that is easy to learn and straight-forward to use.  It is simple to use with PHP as MySQL commands can be written into PHP scripts (Nixon, 2015).  MySQL can also be accessed through a GUI such as PHPMyAdmin or through the command line (Nixon, 2015).
##Java
Java uses a combination of compilation and interpretation (Eck, 2014). Java is compiled for the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) which allows the compiled code to be ported across different operating systems instead of being compiled to run only on one particular machine and needing to be compiled for each machine (Eck, 2014).  The Java bytecode can then be interpreted by an interpreter to produce machine code to run the Java program on that particular machine (Eck, 2014).  This is one of the advantages of using Java because compilers are large and complicated programs unlike interpreters and one would be required for the machine language for each machine type that the program would be required to run on (Eck, 2014).  Many android apps are written in Java (Eck, 2014).  Both PHP and Java can be used as a middle-ground between the client-side GUI and the server-side data (Trent et al, 2008, Adebukola and Kazeem, 2014).  Both have similar capabilities and there is little to choose between them (Trent et al, 2008).
##Linking of technologies
PHP, MySQL, HTML are all free to use (Nixon, 2015).  PHP and MySQL work together in dynamic web pages, PHP can be used to connect to the database, send an SQL query to retrieve information and use this information to build a webpage (Nixon, 2015).  CSS, HTML and JavaScript are used in combination to provide the structure, look and instant user interaction functionality in dynamic web page design (Nixon, 2015).  Ajax (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) uses a combination of technologies to provide instant feedback to users without the need to wait for information from the server (Nixon, 2015).
